Iran says that Israel will pay for the
assassination of hamas's top political
leader isma Haner he was killed in an
air strike in Teran thousands have
gathered in the Iranian capital for a
funeral honoring the leader of the
Palestinian party and militant group
Hamas he was also the chief negotiator
in talks aimed at reaching a ceasefire
with Israel Iranian supreme leader
Ayatollah Kam spoke at the ceremony Iran
holds Israel responsible for the killing
and has said that they will make Israel
regret the
move in Tel Aviv the Israeli War cabinet
met to discuss Rising tensions Israel
has not confirmed or denied that it was
behind the attack that killed Haner but
it did announce that it was responsible
for an air strike on a suburb of Beirut
that killed a Hezbollah Commander prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu sought to
reassure israelies that the country is
ready to face down threats from both
Iran and lebanon's Hezbollah
there are challenging days ahead of us
since the attack in Beirut threats have
been heard from all sides we are
prepared for any scenario and we will
stand United and determined against any
threat Israel will exact a heavy price
for any aggression against us on any
front D Rebecca is following
developments from Jerusalem I asked her
how worried people are about retaliation
from Iran
well that's right that is reporting
coming from the New York Times to say
that Ayatollah hman has ordered a direct
attack they've certainly said publicly
that they will be responding and
retaliating as you've just been
reporting against what they see as an
Israeli attack of course Israel haven't
claimed responsibility publicly although
Benjamin Netanyahu did hinted it last
night in his address to the nation
saying that Israel had had a devastating
a devastating blow to Iran's proxies in
the plural because let's not forget
we're talking about two assassinations
in less than a 24-hour period one uh
just hours before the ishan assass
assassination in Iran uh one of the key
commanders of the Hezbollah group was
killed in Beirut and Israel did claim
responsibility for that attack so Iran
certainly saying that they will come out
in uh defense and you know it's hardly
surprising this was an very embarrassing
blow for Iran that let's say Israel or
that an assassination was able to take
place inside on their Sovereign soil so
they they have little choice but to
retaliate now whether or not they do it
on Sovereign Israeli soil of course
remains to be seen there has been
precedent of that we saw that happen for
the first time in April when Iran
retaliated to another assass
assassination that they believe uh
Israel carried out uh and they you know
sent hundreds of missiles and drones
into uh Israeli airspace most of course
were shot out by Israel and its allies
but there is certainly precedent for
that and we'll just have to see how big
an attack Iran are prepared to uh to to
to give Israel but we are talking also
there are people talking about a three
fronted or multif fronted attack where
all of Iran's proxies May coordinate
including the houis uh from Yemen and
Hezbollah and Hamas as well so we'll
just have to see how big it is and then
of course what that means in terms of a
wider conflict in the region Hamas
leader is Hanya was involved in the
negotiations with Israel on a ceasefire
in Gaza and the return of the hostages
what does his death mean for these
efforts well is Hanan was not just
involved he was really the chief negot
negotiator if you will he was really the
person in Hamas who had the strongest
voice in terms of uh negotiating some
kind of ceas fire his death will
certainly uh bring a blow to those
negotiations and that's what many people
is saying that he was considered the
more moderate Voice Within Hamas if you
will certainly when you compare him to
Yahya sinir of in Gaza uh and that he
was almost pushing or certainly more
open to some kind of a ceasefire deal
now the Qatari and Egyptians who have
been uh very key negotiators in these
ceasefire uh agreements uh say that the
killings will certainly uh be a blow to
any deal that there was a deal uh a deal
that Israel had sent back to Hamas after
negotiations in Rome on Monday and they
were waiting for a Hamas response uh
Hamas themselves saying that they were
they were very very close to reaching
some kind of agreement though we don't
know how close but obviously this is
going to deal a blow and the Qatari
prime minister yesterday taking to the
social media platform ex to question how
can mediation succeed when one party
assassinates negotiators on the other
side so kind of R response but certainly
underlining what many people are feeling
about the negotiations now we'll leave
it there for the moment de respondent
Rebeca rits in Jerusalem thanks so
much and let's bring in journalist hen
balha who spent a lot of time in Gaza
before he had to leave he joins us now
from Cairo hzim what has the reaction
been to hana's killing in Gaza and the
West
Bank the most important part for for
Gaza is U particularly is to end the war
and to have an end of all daily basis
suffering um after uh more than N9 month
in in in such situation um all they care
about is um ending this war and uh the
reaction came as a result of that um the
assassination of of hania Might delay or
postpone um um um reaching a deal in the
West Bank it's a bit different there is
a bit of grief um they are not in direct
um impact of the situation what's
happening in GH of course there is a
impact of um um blade and and um and
pressure from Israeli Army but um the
situation and the impact is in Gaza how
big a blow is this uh uh for
Hamas it is big no doubt about that
Hamas um um officials said that out loud
um hania was the top leader of of M uh
but um it's it's good to mention that
he's not the top influential person um I
mean if we talk about the situation and
the war in Gaza the military Wing is the
the most powerful part or body um that
influence the war in G in in Gaza
currently but um it would be a political
problem for Hamas and it will be a
debate over who's going to replace him
so who is going to replace
him well according to the to to the
Hamas um um um low Hanah got three
deputies uh one of them already killed
um um um one in in Gaza City um is yya
senir who's not available and he's under
ground he's busy with the war the second
one is
the who was killed in in Beirut earlier
the third one is um khed mashal who's in
Doha and who's the former um uh top
leader of Hamas before Hanah so um
according to the law um one of the three
deputies uh um um should take the place
but that is not necessarily maybe some
changes would happen because um many
other parties would would influence that
I mean um the hosting country like Q um
Iran the supporting country would
influence if they are in favor of khed
mash or not other parties like Egypt or
other Arab countries who is in
interested of the Palestinian um issue
so the the it's
not crystal clear about that who's going
to replace him but um according to the
law most likely will be khed
Mas where would that leave cesa negot
iations then between Hamas and
Israel well the negotiations is in in in
in already before the the killing of was
in in in in hard uh uh position and and
was in Dead Block uh somehow uh there
was no agreement between the both sides
Hamas and Israel uh but of course the
the assassination of Hanah would make it
more complic at um um I I would expect
that this the negotiation would would be
postponed for some time as it happened
before when the deputy was assassinated
in Beirut before but it would be resumed
eventually uh but the the question is
like um uh uh how and and and when and
if the two parties are ready for
reaching um a deal so that is the most
important so then negotiation now is in
hold uh course for some time but it's
not the end it would be resumed because
there is no other option we leave it
there for the moment journalist hzim
baloa in Cairo thanks so
much thank
you meanwhile Iran has vowed to take
revenge for the killing of isma Haner
the assassination was a massive security
breach and a huge embarrassment for
Iran's leaders any retaliation could
come in several different
forms what could a respond from Iran
look like and how far does tan really
want to go tensions in the Middle East
were already high after Israel's
assassination of hezbollah's top
Commander F shukur in Beirut both
incidents have intensified cause by
Israel's enemies for Retribution but
experts say Iran's leaders want to avoid
a war with Israel and an outright attack
seems highly unlikely backed by the
United States Israel has formidable
resources at the r
including an army of some
170,000 active Judy soldiers it also has
an advanced Air Force with some 200
fighter jets plus the well tested Iron
Dome rocket defense
system Iran could also ask its proxies
in the region to step up their
activities Hezbollah could launch a
massive barrage of missiles at Israel
from Lebanon similar to the one Iran
launched in April that unprecedented
attack of some 300 missiles and drones
was largely repelled but some managed to
penetrate the Iron Dome system causing
damage inside the country last year us
intelligence estimated that Hezbollah
has over 100,000 Rockets out their
ready heah could also carry out a strike
on civilian targets within Israeli
territory this is a much less likely
possibility but a much more serious one
an attack of this kind would almost
definitely lead to an even further
escalation but Iran's retaliation won't
necessarily happen on Israeli soil aside
from Hezbollah in Lebanon Iran backs a
number of Allied militant groups across
the middle east in Iraq Syria Gaza and
in Yemen tan is now already encouraging
the Islamic resistance in Iraq a
coalition of militias to step up its
attacks on us targets there after months
of calm
and in the Red Sea Yemen's houy Rebels
have been carrying out attacks on ships
it claims are linked to Israel since the
beginning of the Gaza
conflict the assassination of Ismael
Hanah puts Iran in a difficult position
how to respond in a way which shows
strength and restores deterrence but at
the same time avoids an allout war with
its sworn enemy
[Music]
Israel and let's get more on this from
DW's Middle East Shan rosan is who joins
me now in the studio shanni good morning
what will be the main goal of any
Iranian response well of course they
need to show strength they want to build
deterrence against Israel because this
seems like an un you know AB bashed you
know attempt of Israel to to uh on
Iranian soil on Iranian sovereignity so
of course they would want to do that
they want to show that they're strong
they cannot keep you know face to the
world especially wanting to be seen as
the strong you know uh Fighters for the
Palestinian cause they need to show that
they venge the blood of hania and also
uh don't let Israel tread all over their
you know sovereignity and this is
exactly how you do that do you how do
you strike this balance because so far
Iran has tried despite um you know its
strong alienation with the Palestinians
and the support the Palestinian CA
through Hamas it also tried to distance
itself in a way uh not to be directly
involved and now it will try to strike a
balance of how to send that message
without bringing to a wider escalation
and and what about um hollah can one
expect a response from the group and if
so what sort of a response should uh one
expect well I think in a way there's a
bit of a relief for Hassan asala he will
be speaking later today we will hear
what exactly he wants to say following
uh for Cher's assassination but but you
know knowing that this is a bigger
problem and now the spotlight is on you
know the backers the Iranians of course
that helps him get more time to to get
his you know response in order but it's
no doubt in Israel there's far more
concerned about the northern border that
is that means that response from hez
balah than from Iran uh mostly because
it's just much shorter time and much
shorter distance Israel has very little
time to respond to any attacks from
kisala kisala is considered to be the
best armed proxy Iran has in the region
with over 150,000 you know missiles in
different ranges um so when hisbah
decides to attack it can be very deadly
while what we've seen from Iran on in
April is that Israel had much longer
time to respond and eventually also the
attack was more more than 99% of it of
the barriage was um you know Israel
managed to uh stop we we're talking
about expected attacks and responses
from Iran and also Hezbollah potentially
at the same time I mean uh whatever
these responses are will it prevent an
allout escalation into a wider Regional
War oh it's s to to to be seen we need
to see exactly what happens under theg
ground and we also need to keep in mind
if we rewind a bit partially why we are
here is because uh there was an attack
on the go Israeli occupied go on Heights
that killed 12 kids in a in a soccer
field and and this is probably a mistake
and this is what happens when when
you're engag in war you know you can
plan what you want but you don't always
uh control the result and Israel has
this uh rule that it responds according
to the result not according to the
intention this is why we've seen also a
very tame response to the previous
attack from Iran in April so yes it
could be that all sides do not want to
see escalation but only want to show
deterrence and you know keep this game
of balancing reactions but a mistake
could happen and that could maybe lead
to an escalation out you know taking
things out of hand sh stay with us just
to remind our viewers the visuals that
they're seeing on their screens right
now are live visuals coming from tan
this is the funeral procession of isma
Han the the top political leader of
Hamas that's happening right now in
Teran and as you were talking sh we
talking about deescalation there are now
many calls for uh deescalation including
uh from from Germany DW's Chief
political editor M kufner spoke with
defense minister Boris Pistorius about
that currently there's a huge concern
that there could be an allout war in the
Middle East after the Hamas leader was
killed in Iran Mr hania but also a
leading member of Hezbollah your
American counterpart Lloyd Austin says
that the war can be prevented what is
your assessment at this moment well of
course Lord Austin is right uh it can be
prevented but it has to to be it need to
be it needs to be prevented because
nobody can wish or can can even imagine
a further escalation in the region we
don't need that we don't want that and
we have to um to u to try everything uh
to make influence available available to
All actors in the region not to escalate
and um pay attention to deescalation and
to do everything uh for getting peace
back in that region as soon as possible
what does this mean for German weapons
deliveries weapons commitment towards
Israel but also for German's
participation in of unifil on the
Lebanese border unifil is um not touched
at the moment we we continue we proceed
with our engagement over there of course
we uh we assume the the situation every
every day every hour uh but we we stay
there and we won't make
U only National decisions over there
there the German defense minister there
speak speaking earlier to DW sha who can
in effect exert any influence uh in the
current situation to prevent uh further
escalation in the region well we talk
about the Israel is definitely the
Americans that's where you have most of
the leverage um and you know we were
just hearing the German defense minister
Germany and America America by far more
are the main suppliers of weapons and
for Israel you know they have a lot of
Leverage they can use there and we've
been seeing a lot of efforts from uh
Europe and and and and and the US when
it comes to Lebanon there's a very great
fear that any confrontation that will
lead to direct attack on Lebanon is is
just going to be too devastating for
this already frail country um so this is
where the the focus is on but when it
comes to Iran I think it's very hard to
know who can even you know exert any
leverage there um I think it's you know
I think what Israelis were counting on
when they initiated this was the
assumption that isra that Iran as a as a
rational player will will have zero
interest in actually an allout war and a
wide escalation um we will have to wait
a little longer to see if that
assumption is in any way correct we'll
leave it there for the moment shanas
thanks so much for coming into the
studio for that